Welcome to this module on securing EC2 instances using hardened AMI.
In this course,
you will learn the importance of hardening the AMI and why it is
important to continuously maintain the hardening process.
Then,
we will look at the EC2 key pairs and some of the best practices in securing it.
Then we will log into AWS Trusted Advisor and understand how to
identify and assess security concerns in your AWS account.
Later on,
you will learn how to use AWS Config to monitor resources that
are non‑compliant to security standards.
And in this specific module,
we will learn about the process of hardening an AMI and understand
how to run security assessments using Amazon Inspector to uncover
security violations in your EC2 instances.
Before we start looking at hardening the AMI,
let's cover some basics on Amazon Machine Image.
An AMI is like a blueprint for the bricks that you're
going to use in constructing the building.
If the resource material of that brick is of low quality,
the whole building can come collapsing down.
In the same way, if an AMI is not built or configured properly,
it's going to reflect in the strength of your network.
Any time you want to launch a single or multiple EC2 instances,
you need to specify an AMI that holds all the configuration details.
An AMI typically includes the following details: one or more EBS snapshots,
permissions that control which AWS account can be used to launch EC2 instance,
and the device mapping that specifies the volumes to be
attached while launching the instance.
AWS also gives you the option of customizing the launched instance and
saving this updated configuration as a custom AMI.
And any new instances that are going to be launched in the future using this
custom AMI will include all the customized config changes.
Instead of building an AMI from scratch,
you can also purchase AMIs from a third party that
are available in AWS Marketplace.
Hardening from a security standpoint indicates strengthening or
protecting your system against vulnerability attacks.
When you launch an EC2 instance from AMI,
it helps you save time and effort,
but it will all come crashing down If there is a security loophole in your AMI.
It's like building a house on a weak foundation.
So let's look at some of the common industry accepted hardening
standards that your AMI needs to adhere to.
They are Center for Internet Security, also called as CIS,
International Organization for Standardization,
called as ISO standards, Sysadmin Audit Network Security Institute,
also called as SANS institute, and National Institute of Standards Technology,
NIST.
Let's take a detailed look at the steps involved in the hardening process.
Identify the right base image.
You need to select an AMI that has the latest and greatest
operating system packages and server patches installed.
If this is not chosen properly, you are starting off on a wrong note.
So this step is very vital in the hardening process.
Protect credentials.
You need to delete all AWS credentials and third party
credentials from any conflagration files and ensure all
additional certificates are removed from the system.
Any services that authenticates users in clear text format over the
network or in any insecure way needs to be disabled.
Startup script must start only minimum essential administrative services.
The rest of the nonessential network services needs to be shut off.
Access to some of the known vulnerable IP addresses must be
blocked to prevent any kind of DoS and DDos attacks.
As part of customizing your AMI, you may add application servers,
web servers, and database servers to your AMI.
It is very important that these additional services need to be secured by
setting up proper firewall rules, enabling SSN, disabling remote access to DB
servers, and so on and run proper vulnerability checks using many tools
provided by AWS or other third party security vendors. I will encourage you to
look at the security whitepaper published by AWS. You will see a link for that
under exercise file section.
Let's look at some of the tasks that are specific to Linux‑based AMIs.
Remote password authentication and configure SSHD to allow only public key
authentication. Do not allow any default password and delete or disable
passwords for all user accounts and delete all SSH public and private keys.
Any system log files or history commands that may contain sensitive data
needs to be purged as well.
Now let's switch our attention to Windows‑based AMIs. You need
to ensure that guest account is disabled, and all user accounts
have randomly generated passwords.
Clear all the Windows event logs that may contain any sensitive data, and
Windows services, like file sharing, print spooler, RPC, and any other
non‑essential Windows services needs to be disabled as well.
As a security engineer,
you must be aware that this hardening process is not a one‑time process.
You need to be constantly on your toes to apply the latest patches and
install OS fixes and security fixes for any vulnerability attacks that
may surface from time to time. Some of the common bootstrapping
applications that can be used to your benefit are Puppet, Chef,
Capistrano, cloud‑init, and cfn‑init.
Now let's look at some of the architectural policies that needs to be
considered if you're planning to create a custom AMI. AMIs cannot be
region‑specific, and they must be able to run in all regions without any
modifications. AMIs must use 64‑bit or 64‑bit ARM architecture.
AMIs cannot use paravirtualization and instead must use HVM
virtualization only. All AMIs must be backed by Amazon EBS,
and they cannot be backed by Amazon S3. AMIs also need to use file
systems like EXT2, EXT3, EXT4, XFS, vfat, lvm, and ntfs to pass a self‑service AMI scanning tool test.